HTTP Archive Guided Tour (#97)
HTTPArchive/httparchive.org: docs/guided_tour_summary_pages_requests.md

ORDER BY bytesImg DESC
```
![example results](./images/guided_tour_summary_requests_pages_join_example1.jpg)

In the previous example we didn't use the requests table at all. However if we wanted to, we could do the same analysis by JOINing the request table. In order to do this, I've made the following modifications to the query above:
* Named the tables (ie, so we can reference "httparchive.summary_pages.2018_09_01_desktop" as "pages") 
* Reference the tables for some of the columns that exist in both tables (such as pages.url)
* Since we're focuing on images, we'll include `requests.type="image"` in our WHERE clause. 
* JOIN the tables `ON pages.pageid = requests.pageid`
The below query is identifical to the previous one, but uses both tables.

```
SELECT pages.url pageUrl,
       count(*) reqImg, 
       SUM(respBodySize) bytesImg 
FROM `httparchive.summary_pages.2018_09_01_desktop`  pages
INNER JOIN `httparchive.summary_requests.2018_09_01_desktop`  requests
ON pages.pageid = requests.pageid
WHERE requests.type = "image"
GROUP BY pageUrl
ORDER BY bytesImg DESC
```
![example results](./images/guided_tour_summary_requests_pages_join_example2.jpg)

> Some of these image weights seems quite extreme, but these represent the most image heavy sites in the archive. If you want to validate this, you can load one of the pages view DevTools or WebPageTest and see for yourself.  For example based on the results above,  http://thaliahallchicago.com/ has 80 images totaling 117MB. WebPageTest confirms that this is accurate (although the image weight likley changed slightly between when the HTTP Archive saw the page vs when this manual test was performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these image weights seem quite extreme, but these represent the most image heavy sites in the archive. If you want to validate this, you can load one of the pages in DevTools or WebPageTest and see for yourself.  For example based on the results above,  http://thaliahallchicago.com/ has 80 images totaling 117MB. WebPageTest confirms that this is accurate (although the image weight likely changed slightly between when the HTTP Archive saw the page vs when this manual test was performed.
```

![example results](./images/guided_tour_summary_requests_pages_join_example2_wpt.jpg)

If this was all the information we needed, then JOINING the table would have been unecessary. However we want to look at the relationship between the largest image and the overall image weight. In the query below you can add added `MAX(responseBodySize)` to look for the size of the largest image.

```
SELECT pages.url pageUrl,
       count(*) reqImg, 
       SUM(respBodySize) bytesImg, 
       MAX(respBodySize) largestImg 
FROM `httparchive.summary_pages.2018_09_01_desktop`  pages
INNER JOIN `httparchive.summary_requests.2018_09_01_desktop`  requests
ON pages.pageid = requests.pageid
WHERE requests.type = "image"
GROUP BY pageUrl
ORDER BY bytesImg DESC
```
![example results](./images/guided_tour_summary_requests_pages_join_example3.jpg)

> Now let's add a simple formula to look at the relationship of the largest image on a page to the image weight:  largestImg/bytesImg. However seen we can't reference the aggregate names in the query, we'll include the function calls. `MAX(respBodySize)/SUM(respBodySize)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's add a simple formula to look at the relationship of the largest image on a page to the image weight:  largestImg/bytesImg. However since we can't reference the aggregate names in the query, we'll include the function calls. `MAX(respBodySize)/SUM(respBodySize)`.
```

Since there are 1.3 million pages in the HTTP Archive, we have 1.3 million rows in this resultset. Let's aggregate the results from this query now to learn something about the data.

```
SELECT largestImgKBPercent, 
       ROUND(imgKB/512)*512 imageweightbin, 
       count(*) pages
FROM (
    SELECT pages.url pageUrl, 
           count(*) reqImg, 
           ROUND(SUM(respBodySize)/1024) imgKB, 
           ROUND(MAX(respBodySize)/1024) largestImgKB,
           ROUND(MAX(respBodySize) / SUM(respBodySize),2) largestImgKBPercent
    FROM `httparchive.summary_pages.2018_09_01_desktop`  pages
    INNER JOIN `httparchive.summary_requests.2018_09_01_desktop`  requests
    ON pages.pageid = requests.pageid
    WHERE requests.type = "image"
    GROUP BY pageUrl
    ORDER BY imgKB DESC
) 
GROUP BY largestImgKBPercent, imageweightbin
```
![example results](./images/guided_tour_summary_requests_pages_join_example5.jpg)

This resultset has 6863 rows, which is easier to work with. Let's export it to Google Sheets and then see what we can learn from it. 

> In Google Sheets, we can creat a pivot table to cross tabulate the results. For example we can look at the Largest Image % vs the Image Weight Bin by using `largestImgKBPercent` as the rows, `imageweightbin` as the columns, and `pages` as the values. Now instead of 6863 rows, we have 100 rows and a large number of colums. We can also limit the number of columns using a filter, and in this example I've configured a filter on imageweightbin so that we're looking at pages with less than 5MB of images (this accounts for 90% of sites in the HTTPArchive that load images).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Google Sheets, we can create a pivot table to cross tabulate the results. For example we can look at the Largest Image % vs the Image Weight Bin by using `largestImgKBPercent` as the rows, `imageweightbin` as the columns, and `pages` as the values. Now instead of 6863 rows, we have 100 rows and a large number of columns. We can also limit the number of columns using a filter, and in this example I've configured a filter on imageweightbin so that we're looking at pages with less than 5MB of images (this accounts for 90% of sites in the HTTP Archive that load images).
```
